when I was 19 I wasn't sure what I
wanted to do but even at that age I
realized you can never get time back so
I always thought the job you get make
sure it's something you really want to
do so I decided to give canoe guiding a
try though Zambezia is the fourth
biggest river in Africa and this is just
an amazing environment to be and the
people who are involved with wildlife
and conservation are very generous and
that was what drew me to it
the other guiding is the professional
guiding so it means you like to walk on
foot with your guests somebody's
considered the hardest place to get your
kite license in Africa and I don't think
any woman has ever cut those two
licenses it was a dangerous job as a
guide you never want to put yourself or
your guests ever in a position where
there is a problem I was taught never
guide as if you've got a rifle or he's
got his redoubt because that puts things
in perspective
but now I've had some moments where were
quite tense and you had to deal with
them I was working in a camp and we had
one of the young bedroom hands his name
is Timothy he was only 19 and he was
attacked by a lion in the middle of the
day and they ate them the rule is that
once animals make that connection then
they become a problem animal and
unfortunately they have to be shot and
that's what happened in that situation
that's the thing about this job I
suppose is you have to make decisions
sometimes they're not the best that you
want to choose but at the end of the day
it's the right thing to do that
it's great being married to a guide
because we understand each other we
understand the tired day to understand
the exhausting situations and my husband
Nick has always respected me as a guide
with the line incidents when he came
back he walked up to me and shook my
Hina said I knew you do a good job and
walked off that night he came gave me a
hug and said I hope you okay but that's
the respect that it's amazing to have as
a husband and in this in this business
[Music]
we have this great thing in our family
is protect the land and defend the
defenseless gotta stand up for the
things without a voice and unfortunately
in nowadays raises animals to save an
elephant today I mean how wonderful is
that elephants are the most amazing
creatures they're so intelligent and
they need somebody on their side it's
our privilege to be able to do that it's
our privilege to be in this environment
if we can't here to support if we can't
have the long-standing longevity of it
then that's not right
[Music]
if a young girl did ask me if this was a
good life I would say it's a fantastic
life they've spoken to me about it and
I've always say to them if you're going
to do it do it properly because people
are going to look at you and I say to
you more than anyone else so if you're
willing to do that I'll say 100% because
we need people with passion in this
business
[Music]
you